Globally, 1 in 5 teenage girls is out of school.
Find what we can do about it now on the Youth Effect!
(music)
Hi, my name is Vivian Onano,
I was born and raised in a village in rural Kenya,
where I saw so many of my girl friends drop out of school.
Fortunately, even though I was raised by a single mother who had unstable income,
she made sure I got an education.
In fact, I’m one of the five girls in our village to get a bachelor degree.
At the recent youth forum, we asked,
can you imagine if half the girls in your class dropped out?
(JeongYeon Lee) No I cannot imagine that at all.
(Cecilia Simon) In my home country of Sweden, I don’t think that would ever happen.
(Mirna Fernandez) Girls more than boys will sustain the family, and will take care of the next generation,
so why shouldn’t I go to school?
So why is this still happening, why do we have so many girls still out of school?
(Paulina Wojciechowska) A lot of people don’t see the potential of girls.
(Kadijatou Diallo) They’re seen more as the caregivers.
(Anh Nguyen) More labour is needed in the field.
(Henry Ekwuruke) It’s all about the poverty and inequality.
Hey I want to know more about this. Let’s talk to an expert.
So why are so many girls not in school?
Poverty is number one.
Poverty meaning ability to pay those school fees,
and more importantly the ability to supplement for what families
lose because the girls have gone to school.
We need to address the ambition of girls themselves because
if a girl grows up in an environment where the role models
that are around suggest that it’s okay to come out of school
after 6th grade of 8th grade, then that is the attitude that she will come up with.
A child who’s performing sub-optimally because the quality of teaching is so bad
the teachers are not teaching, there are no books in the classroom...
is likely to be withdrawn.
The calculus is well she’s not in school, ah she can marry.
And even when they do stay the attention that they get
going to be biased by social and cultural factors that cause them to
graduate with perhaps fewer skills
and with lower earning power
then boys but they've been to school.
Even after all the challenges girls face getting into school,
education is not even equal once they get there.
Is it just girl talk? What can boys do to reduce inequality?
(Daniel Garay) I can just spread the word about these issues.
(Henry Ekwuruke) If I hear any parent telling any child that they can’t go to school, I’ll take it upon myself.
(Jilt van Schayik) We grew up with stereotypes, which I think is completely wrong.
When you’re out for example playing football, and the girls are watching from the side,
let them join. Don’t say no football is for men.
Ok great, so we know the government should be involved and it’s important to have boys onboard.
But what can I do to help reduce gender inequality at school?
(Yixi Lang) Show our potential to our society.
Try to show them what we are capable of.
(Elaina Estrin) Everybody should have, or mentor somebody.
(Henry Ekwuruke) Young people have to be part of this global movement.
(Jilt van Schayik) So they have to become active.
(Kadijatou Diallo) Whether it’s social media, whether in organizations in their own school,
whether it’s just talking to their friends about it.
(Elaina Estrin) Just help empower people. Push them to do things they believe in. Dream big.
(Tionei Dziva) Because you know with women, if you empower a girl child, you empower the whole nation.
(Henry Ekwuruke) Tell us we are brothers, we are sisters. And make us
to have understanding. Don’t divide us.
(music)
If you’re interested to learn more about this and other youth topics,
engage with us today on social media.
(music)